# Secrets



## Note on Secrets
- Secrets are not Encrypted. Only Encoded
- secrets encode data in base64 format.
  - Do not check-in Secret objects in SCM along with code.
- Secrets are not encryptred in ETCD.
  - Enable Encryption at Rest.
  - use __EncryptionConfiguration__
- Anyone who is able to create pods/deployments in the same namespace can access the secrets.
  -  Configure RBAC
- Consider third party secrets store providers 
  - Azure Keyvault, AWS Provider, GCP provider, Vault Provider etc.
 
 ### Kubernetes Secrets Store CSI Driver
 - __Secrets Store CSI Driver__ for Kubernetes secrets - Integrates secrets stores with Kubernetes via a __Container Storage Interface (CSI)__ volume.
 - The Secrets Store CSI Driver secrets-store.csi.k8s.io allows Kubernetes to mount multiple secrets, keys, and certs stored in enterprise-grade external secrets stores into their pods as a volume.
 - Once the Volume is attached, the data in it is mounted into the container’s file system.
#### AutoRotation
- When a secret is updated in an external secrets store after initial pod deployment, the Kubernetes Secret and the pod mount will be periodically updated depending on how the application consumes the secret data.
  - Mount Kubernetes secret as a volume: 
    - Use auto rotation feature + Sync K8s secrets feature in Secrets Store CSI Driver.
    - application will need to watch for changes from the mounted Kubernetes Secret volume.
    - When the Kubernetes Secret is updated by the CSI Driver, the corresponding volume contents are automatically updated.
  - Application reads the data from container’s filesystem:
    -  Use rotation feature in Secrets Store CSI Driver, application will need to watch for the file change from the volume mounted by the CSI driver.
  - Using Kubernetes secret for environment variable:
    - The pod needs to be restarted to get the latest secret as environment variable.
    - Use something like https://github.com/stakater/Reloader to watch for changes on the synced Kubernetes secret and do rolling upgrades on pods
