# Observability
- Readiness Probe
- Liveness Probe
- Container Logging
- Monitor and Debug Applications

# Pod Lifecycle
- Pod Status
  - Pending
    - Ready to Schedule or Waiting for Scheduler to schedule 
  - Container Creating
    - Pulling Images and creating container 
  - Running 
    - Once created sucessfully , It goes to running state
 ```console
 # Look at status of pods
 kubectl get pods
 ```
 
- Pod Conditions
- Conditions Compliment Pod Status , Its an array of True or false 
  - PodScheduled (True/False)
    - When a pod is scheduled on a node 
  - Initialized (True/False)
    - When pod is initialized 
  - ContainersReady (True/False)
    - When containers are ready  
  - __Ready (True/False)__
     -  When Pod is ready and ready for traffic
## Readiness Probe
- By Default k8 sets the condition to ready when pod is Running
- This means that pod is ready to run/accept traffic.
- But usually it takes sometime for application inside the pod to be up.
- To avoid this you setup a __readinessProbe__
- When readiness probe is defined the pod will wait for the api/condition in the readiness probe to be sucessfull only then it sets the Condition to ready.
- You can add __initialDelaySeconds__ to the probe if you know that your application will take some time to come up.
- Frequency of the probe can be set using __periodSeconds__
- By default the readinessprobe will be tried __3 times__ , if you want  more attempts you need to set __failureThreshold__ variable

### Types of readinessProbe
- __httpGet__ for API's

```yaml
readinessProbe:
  httpget:
    path: /api/ready
    port: 8080
  initialDelaySeconds: 10
  periodSeconds: 5
  failureThreshold: 8
```
- __tcpSocket__ for tcp sockets (like DB)

```yaml
readinessProbe:
  tcpSocket:
    port: 8080
```
- __exec__ for commands

```yaml
readinessProbe:
  exec:
    command:
      - cat
      - /app/is_ready
```

## Liveness Probe
- Periodically chedk if container is healthy.
- similar to readinessProbe

## Container Logging
- see logs in a pod
```console
kubectl logs -f <pod-name> 
```
- If you have multiple containers in pod, To view logs you must specify the container name.

```console
kubectl logs -f <pod-name> <container name>
```

## Monitoring
- Many Open Source monitoring services used 
  - Prometheus
  - Elastic Stack
  - DataDog
  - DynaTrace
### Metrics Server
- Heapster is the original metrics server project which is deprecated now.
- Metrics servers gets logs from each kubernetes nodes and pods and stores them __in memory__
- Not persisted to disk only __in memory__
- No historical performance is stored.
- For such requirements use any of the above opensource monitoring services.
#### Install metrics server
- In minikube run the following command to enable metrics-server
```console
minikube addons enable metrics-server
```
- For other kube clusters 
```console
git clone <metrics server git hub repo url>
cd kubernetes-metrics-server
kubectl create -f deploy/<version>/
```
- To view Metrics on node and pods use the following commands.
```console
kubectl top node
kubectl top pod
```
