# Volumes

## Persistent Volume
- A piece of storage in the cluster that has been provisioned by an administrator or dynamically provisioned using Storage Classes
- It is a resource in the cluster just like a node is a cluster resource
-  PVs are volume plugins like Volumes, but have a lifecycle independent of any individual Pod that uses the PV
## Persistent Volume Claims
-  request for storage by a user
-  It is similar to a Pod. Pods consume node resources and PVCs consume PV resources.
-  Pods can request specific levels of resources (CPU and Memory)
-  Claims can request specific size and access modes (e.g., they can be mounted ReadWriteOnce, ReadOnlyMany or ReadWriteMany)

### Lifecycle of PVC
#### __Provisioning__ :There are two ways PVs may be provisioned: 
  - Statically
  - Dynamically.

##### **Static** :
- A cluster administrator creates a number of PVs. They carry the details of the real storage, which is available for use by cluster users. They exist in the Kubernetes API and are available for consumption.
###### Problems with Static Provisioning
  - Creating a PVC in this case requires an actual storage space created in local disk or cloud and creating a PV
  - We have to do this manually everytime
  - Storage classes solve this issue by dynamic provisioning.


##### **Dynamic** :
- Storage Classes




## Stateful Sets

### Why you need a stateful set ?
- In deployments,  the order of pods is not guarenteed, the names of pods change if they were ever re-created
- Stateful sets solve this problem
### In Statefulset 
- Pods are created in a sequential order
- After first pod is deployed , it must be in a running and ready state  before the next pod is deployed.
- Assign a unique original index to the pods in set.
  - mysql-0, mysql-1, mysql-2.
  - First pod in any set would be __\<name>-\<index>__

### Headless Service.
- Headless service doesnot have IP and does not perform Load Balencer.
- To create a headless service , create a normal service and set __clusterIP:__ to None.

### Storage in stateful sets
- PVC template.
